>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
NOVEMBER 3rd, SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY OFFER
ASSURANCE TO EGYPTIAN LEADERS.
>>> AND FRACKING AND
ENVIRONMENTALISTS.
>> YOU HAVE TO TAKE TIME TO TALK
TO FOLKS ON THEIR TERMS.
>>> AND THE FINE LINE BETWEE
STREET ART AND VANDALISM
>> THE TWIST IN THE STORY IS
THAT WHEN HE VANDALIZES YOUR
PROPERTY, ITS VALUE GOES U
INSTEAD OF GOING DOWN.
>> NEXT ON PBS NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS, HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERR
HAS STOPPED IN EGYPT
HE SOUGHT TO URGE LEADERS THAT
THE UNITED STATES STANDS BEHIN
ITS ONCE CLOSE ALLY.
>> THE UNITED STATES WIL
CONTINUE TO PROVIDE SUPPORT THAT
DIRECTLY BENEFITS THE EGYPTIAN
PEOPLE IN HEALTH AND
SCHOLARSHIPS AND PRIVATE SECTO
DEVELOPMENT AND WE ARE
CONTINUING ASSISTANCE TO HEL
SECURE EGYPT'S BORDERS
>> THE U.S. RECENTLY SUSPENDED
MUCH OF ITS $1.3 BILLION
MILITARY AID PACKAGE TO EGYP
BECAUSE OF THE OUSTER OF MOHAMED
MORSI.
IT SAYS THEY ARE UNHAPPY WIT
THE U.S. CRITICISM OF EGYPT'
NEW GOVERNMENT, WHAT THE
CONSIDER TEPID U.N. SUPPORT FO
THE SYRIAN REBELS AND ONGOIN
NUCLEAR NEGOTIATIONS WITH IRAN
IN IRAN, THE SUPREME LEADE
AYATOLLAH KHAMENEI OFFERED
SUPPORT FOR THE WEST ABOUT THE
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
THIS COMES AS CONSERVATIVES IN
IRAN HAVE A CONCILIATORY TONE.
THE DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN ON
THURSDAY IN GENEVA
>>> THE FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY CONTRACTOR, EDWAR
SNOWDEN, ONE FORMER AIDE TO TH
CHANCELLOR SAID THAT SNOWDEN HAS
DONE THE WESTERN WORLD A GREAT
SERVICE AND IT'S UP TO US TO
HELP HIM
TODAY ON "FACE THE NATION,
REJECTING THE IDEA THAT SNOWDE
BE GRANTED ANY CLEMENCY.
>> CAN HE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY I
WHAT HE WAS WAS A WHISTLE BLOWER
TO PICK UP THE PHONE AND CAL
THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE, THE SENAT
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN
AND NOW HE'S DONE THIS ENORMOU
DISSERVICE TO OUR COUNTRY AND
THINK THE ANSWER IS NO CLEMENCY.
>> A REPUBLICAN COUNTERPART IN
THE HOUSE ALSO DISMISSED THE
IDEA
>> NO, I DON'T SEE ANY REASON.
YOU KNOW, WE -- I WOULDN'T D
THAT
>> THE SUSPECT IN FRIDAY'S FATAL
SHOOTING OF A TSA AGEN
HAS BEEN CHARGED WITH MURDER
PAUL CIANCIA WROTE A NOT
INDICATING THAT HE INTENDED TO
DIE DURING THE ATTACK.
HE SURVIVED AFTER BEING WOUNDE
BY THE POLICE.
>>> FOUR PROMINENT SCIENTISTS,
INCLUDING JAMES HANSEN
DISTRIBUTED A JOINT LETTER
CITING THE NEED FOR NUCLEA
POWER PLANTS
THEY WROTE RENEWABLES LIKE WIN
AND SOLAR AND BIOMASS CANNOT
SCALE UP FAST ENOUGH TO DELIVE
CHEAP AND POWER AT THE SCALE THE
GLOBAL ECONOMY REQUIRES.
THERE'S NO CREDIBLE PATH T
CLIMATE STABILIZATION THAT DOE
NOT INCLUDE A SUBSTANTIAL ROLE
FOR NUCLEAR POWER.
HONDA IS RECALLING 344,000 O
ITS 2007 AND 2008 ODD SE
MINIVANS SAYING THAT THE VAN'S
BRAKE AND THEY ARE NOT AWARE O
ANY PROBLEMS RELATED TO TH
BRAKE PROBLEM.
>>> RUNNERS PARTICIPATED IN TH
NEW YORK MARATHON.
THE TWO WINNERS WERE KENYANS
>>> WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A NE
EXECUTIVE ORDER BY PRESIDENT
OBAMA REQUIRING LOCA
GOVERNMENTS AND FEDERAL AGENCIES
TO ACCOUNT FOR CLIMATE CHANG
WHEN THEY UNDERTAKE BIG NE
PROJECTS
FOR MORE, WE'RE JOINED FRO
WASHINGTON BY MARGARET TOLIVE.
IF WE'RE JUST CATCHING UP HERE
WHAT WERE THOSE CHANGES?
WHAT WAS THE EXECUTIVE ORDER
SAYING
>> SO THE EXECUTIVE ORDER IS
TELLING FEDERAL AGENCIES AND
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS AND ESPECIALLY
FEDERAL AGENCIES TO ANALYZE AL
OF THE RISKS THAT CLIMATE CHANGE
MAY HAVE TO THEIR MISSIONS AND
WHAT THEY DO, TO TALK ABOUT WHAT
THEY ARE ALREADY DOING AND WHA
THEY SHOULD BE DOING AND SETS UP
A TASK FORCE TO PUT ALL OF THESE
SUGGESTIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
TOGETHER AND ANALYSIS OVER THE
NEXT NINE MONTHS
>> DOES THE FORECAST HAVE AN
TEETH OR HOW DOES IT WORK ACROSS
THE DIFFERENT AGENCIES
>> WHAT IS INTERESTING ABOUT
THIS TASK FORCE IS IT IS LAYIN
DOWN THE POLICY INSIDE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION FOR THE SORT OF
STUFF HE CAN'T DO THROUG
CONGRESS AND SO THE REAL
QUESTION COMES TO FUNDING.
WE NEED "X" AMOUNT OF DOLLARS TO
REBRIDGE THIS BRIDGE, SHORE UP
THIS SHORELINE, WORK ON ROAD
AND INFRASTRUCTURE AND B
PREPARED FOR WILDFIRES AND
EXCESSIVE HEAT, IT WIL
ULTIMATELY BE UP TO CONGRESS T
DECIDE HOW TO APPROPRIATE BUT TO
THE EXTENT HE CAN USE EXECUTIV
POWER TO FURTHER HIS POLIC
GOALS AND SAY, HEY, I BELIEV
CLIMATE CHANGE EXISTS AND WE
NEED TO TAKE IT SERIOUSLY.
THIS IS HIS EFFORT TO DO THAT.
>> SO WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
ALL OF THOSE THINGS THAT YOU
OUTLINED RAISING BRIDGES AND S
FORTH, THAT ALL COSTS MONEY.
>> IF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS WANT T
MAKE THE CASE THAT THEY NEEDED
ADDED INFRASTRUCTURE DOLLARS
THEY CAN CERTAINLY DO IT IN THIS
CONTEXT TO SAY WE'RE COASTAL
WE'RE IN A TORNADO ZONE, OR WHAT
HAVE YOU
BUT TO THE EXTENT THE LOCA
GOVERNMENTS DON'T WANT T
ACTIVELY PARTICIPATE, TH
QUESTION THEN BECOMES IS THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT GOING TO BE
AT LEAST UNDER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HOLDING THI
EXECUTIVE ORDER AND THIS POLIC
OVER THEIR HEADS AS A THREAT T
WITHHOLD FUNDING
>> THERE WAS A RECENT REPORT OUT
BY THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
A THREE-YEAR LONG STUDY TO LOO
AT HOW CLIMATE CHANGE CAN AFFECT
THE NAVAL BASE IN NORFOLK,
VIRGINIA
PARTS OF THAT NAVAL BASE COULD
BE UNDER WATER
WHEN WE LOOK AT COMMUNITIES,
INCLUDING MILITARY COMMUNITIES
IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AFFECTED BY THIS, TOO?
>> THAT'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT
AMONG THE AGENCIES THAT AR
TASKED WITH COMING UP WITH A
ANALYSIS OVER THE COURSE OF TH
NEXT NINE MONTHS IS FRONT AN
CENTER THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AND HOUSING AND URBA
DEVELOPMENT AND THE EPA AN
SUCH
THE D.O.D. IS ONE OF THE FOCUSES
OF THE FOLKS WHO ARE BEING ASKED
TO ASSESS HOW CLIMATE CHANGE MAY
IMPACT THEIR MISSION AND WHA
THEY DO.
>> SO NOW THERE'S AN EXECUTIVE
ORDER, A TASK FORCE FOR NINE
MONTHS, WHAT HAPPENS NEXT.
>> THE NINE-MONTH PERIOD I
REALLY INTERESTING BECAUSE IT'
WIDELY EXPECTED TO OVERLAP THE
PERIOD OF TIME WHERE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS GOING TO B
PAK MAKING A DECISION ON THE
KEYSTONE PIPELINE OUT OF CANAD
WHICH IS AN ISSUE THAT THE
CANADIANS WANT APPROVED AND TH
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNITY HA
RALLIED AGAINST.
SO FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION,
THE TIMETABLE OF THIS IS GOING
TO OVERLAP OR COINCIDE VER
LIKELY WITH THAT DECISION.
SO A LOT OF WHAT HAPPENS OVE
THE NEXT NINE MONTHS MAY B
POLITICAL, WHO IS JOINING TH
TASK FORCE, WHAT ARE THEY ASKING
FOR, HOW DOES THIS DOVETAIL WITH
THE POLITICAL CASE HE'S MAKING
THAT HE'S A STEWARD OF THE
ENVIRONMENT.
>> MARGARET, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU IT.
♪♪
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT FEATURING IN-DEPTH
REPORTING FROM AROUND THE NATION
AND FROM AROUND THE WORLD.
FOR YEARS NOW ENERGY COMPANIES
HAVE BEEN DRILLING UNDERGROUND
TO EXTRACT NATURAL GAS USING A
PROCESS KNOWN AS FRACKING AN
FOR JUST AS LONG, MANY
ENVIRONMENTALISTS HAVE INSISTE
THAT IT'S JUST NOT THAT SAFE
WE LOOK AT AN UNLIKELY COALITION
THAT HAS FORMED IN PENNSYLVANI
BETWEEN SOME ENVIRONMENTAL LIFTS
AND A NUMBER OF OIL AND GA
COMPANIES.
THEY SAY IT WILL ALLOW FRACKIN
TO CONTINUE AND ENSURE THA
SAFEGUARDS ARE TAKEN
RICK CARR REPORTS.
>> ENVIRONMENTALISTS HAVE BEEN
PROTESTING AGAINST FRACKING IN
PENNSYLVANIA EVER SINCE TH
NATURAL GAS BOOM ABOUT TEN YEARS
AGO.
>> A RESOUNDING NO TO FRACKING
IN OUR PARKS
>> Reporter: THEIR MAIN CONCER
IS THAT THE CHEMICALS PUMPED
INTO WELLS AT HIGH PRESSURE TO
EXTRACT THE GAS WILL LEAK OR
SPILL INTO LAKES AND STREAMS
ADVOCATES OF FRACKING SAY TH
THREAT OF CONTAMINATION HAS BEEN
GROSSLY EXAGGERATED BU
ENVIRONMENTALISTS SAY OIL AN
GAS COMPANIES NEED TO COME CLEAN
ABOUT THE RISKS.
>> IT IS FUNDAMENTALLY A
UNTRUTH TO WALK INTO A COMMUNITY
AND SAY THAT THIS IS A 100% SAFE
PROCESS.
IT ISN'T
NO INDUSTRIAL PROCESS IS
MAKE NO MISTAKE ABOUT IT, TH
RISKS ARE REAL AND THEY AR
SUBSTANTIAL.
>> SO WHEN THEY TALK ABOUT
NATURAL GAS, PEOPLE OFTEN ASK ME
THE QUESTION, IS IT GOOD OR BA
FOR THE ENVIRONMENT.
>> Reporter: DESPITE ALL O
THOSE CONCERNS, MARK BROWN I
NOW WORKING WITH OIL AND GAS
COMPANIES THAT ARE FRACKING IN
PENNSYLVANIA
BROWNSTEIN SAYS TH
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP ISN'T IN
FAVOR OF FRACKING BUT IT IS IN
FAVOR OF USING MORE NATURAL GA
AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO COA
BECAUSE GAS IS CLEANER
A NEW REPORT BY TH
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENC
SAYS THAT U.S. POWER PLANTS HAVE
RECENTLY CUT THEIR TOTAL
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY MORE
THAN 6%.
MOSTLY BECAUSE SO MANY HAV
SWITCHED FROM COAL TO GAS.
BROWNSTEIN BELIEVES NATURAL GA
IS THE FOSSIL FUEL WE SHOULD B
USING UNTIL WE GET OUR ENERG
FROM RENEWABLE RESOURCES LIK
WIND AND SOLAR POWER
>> THAT'S WHAT WE WANT BUT W
ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S GOIN
TO TAKE SOME TIME TO GET THERE
AND THE QUESTION IS, WHAT DO YOU
DO IN THE MEANTIME
>> SO A LITTLE OVER TWO YEAR
AGO THE ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENS
FUND STARTED TO TALK TO TH
COMPANIES FRACKING FOR GAS I
PENNSYLVANIA
THE ONES THAT SO MANY OTHE
ENVIRONMENTALISTS SEE AS THE
ENEMY.
>> AND IN ORDER TO MAKE CHANGE
YOU HAVE TO TAKE THE TIME TO
LEARN THEIR INDUSTRY, LEAR
THEIR CONCERNS AND BE ABLE T
TALK WITH FOLKS ON THEIR TERMS
ABOUT WHAT YOU SEE THE PROBLEM
ARE AND ALSO WHAT YOU SEE TH
OPPORTUNITIES ARE TO FIX THOSE
PROBLEMS
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE OIL AN
GAS COMPANIES BROWNSTEIN
APPROACHED ALSO SAW AN
OPPORTUNITY.
PAUL GOODFELLOW IS A SHELL
EXECUTIVE.
>> THIS IDEA OF HAVING A
RATIONAL CONVERSATION WITH
PEOPLE, LOOKING AT THE FACTS AND
THINK ABOUT HOW COLLECTIVELY W
CAN RAISE THE PERFORMANCE BA
AND I THINK IT'S A CONVERSATIO
THAT WE CAN DO WITH MORE TAKIN
PLACE.
>> Reporter: EARLIER THIS YEAR
SHELL AND THREE OTHER ENERGY
COMPANIES JOINED THE
ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUNDS AN
SIX NONPROFITS TO FORM A
COALITION CALLED THE SUSTAINABLE
SHELL DEVELOPMENT.
ITS FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS WA
TO ANNOUNCE A SET OF
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS FO
FRACKING WHICH BROWNSTEIN WILL
HELP WITH THE STATE AND FEDERA
REGULATIONS.
>> WHAT WE'RE HOPING TO DO WIT
THIS PROJECT, FRANKLY, I
CONSTANTLY PUSH THE ENVELOPE I
TERMS OF WHAT IS POSSIBLE,
CERTIFY COMPANIES TO THAT HIGHER
STANDARD, LET THAT BE AN EXAMPLE
FOR REGULATORS, SURE, BUT FO
OTHERS IN AN INDUSTRY, TOO, AS
TO WHAT IS POSSIBLE.
AND IN SO DOING YOU'RE
CONSTANTLY TRYING TO MOVE THIS
FORWARD IN A POSITIVE AND IN A
BETTER DIRECTION
>> Reporter: THREE OF THE 15
STANDARDS THAT THE GROUP
ANNOUNCED ARE AIMED AT REDUCIN
DIESEL EMISSIONS AT FRACKING
SITES.
SEVEN ARE AIMED AT KEEPING THE
FRACKING CHEMICALS OUT OF TH
WATER SUPPLIES, LAKES, AND
RIVERS
RIGHT AWAY ENVIRONMENTALISTS
SPLIT INTO TWO CAMPS
THEY TOUTED IT AS A BREAKTHROUGH
AND MANY SAW IT AS EMPTY
RHETORIC FROM THE ENERGY
COMPANIES.
>> DO WE JUST HAVE TO TAKE
SHELL'S WORD AND THE WORD OF THE
OTHER ENERGY COMPANIES THA
YOU'RE GOING TO ABIDE BY THESE
HIGHER STANDARDS
>> NO.
BECAUSE I THINK THE KEY ELEMEN
IS NOT JUST THE FACT THAT THER
ARE 15 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
THAT HAVE BEEN WRITTEN
IT'S A FACT THAT IT'
INDEPENDENT OR LITERATURE WILL
COME AROUND AND VERIFY THA
THERE ARE OPERATIONS EXECUTING
TO THOSE STANDARDS
IT'S ABOUT HAVING TH
INDEPENDENT VERY FINE AND COME
AND LOOKS AT OUR PRICES IN
PENNSYLVANIA AND SAYS, YES, YO
ARE MEETING THE STANDARDS.
>> I WILL START TO BELIEVE THA
IT MAKE AS DIFFERENCE THE VERY
FIRST TIME THAT SOMEBODY STOPS
DRILLING A WELL OR DOESN'T DRILL
A WELL BASED ON ONE OF THOSE
STANDARDS.
>> Reporter: JOHN IS AN ANTI
FRACKING ENVIRONMENTALIST.
>> THE AMOUNT OF BENEFIT TO TH
ENVIRONMENT, ABSOLUTELY NONE
THE BENEFIT TO THE INDUSTRY IS
YOU'VE GOT A NEW MYTH THAT SAY
THE ENVIRONMENTALISTS ARE NOW ON
BOARD.
>> Reporter: A RETIRED ENGINEER,
HE BELIEVES IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO
FRAC FOR GAS SAFELY.
>> I THINK THERE'S A MIND SET IN
THE INDUSTRY THAT WHAT REALL
MATTERS IS UNDER THE GROUND AN
YOU DON'T CHOOSE YOUR SITE
BASED ON WHAT IS ON TOP, THE
HOUSES AND THE TREES
YOU CHOOSE IT BASED ON HOW MUC
YOU ARE GOING TO GET
>> Reporter: FRACKING WELLS HAVE
BEEN POPPING UP CLOSER AND
CLOSER TO HIS NATIVE PITTSBURGH,
PLACES THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO
HIM.
>> MY GRANDKIDS PLAYED IN THIS
PARK
OUR OLDER ONES LEARNED TO PLAY
DOWN THE ROAD.
>> Reporter: THIS COULD EARN THE
COUNTY 2 TO $4 MILLION UP FRON
ACCORDING TO THE COUNT
EXECUTIVE AND AS MUCH AS
$700,000 A YEAR IN ROYALTIES
AFTER THAT
CAN YOU BLAME IN THIS TIME O
BUDGET DEFICITS A COUNTY
GOVERNMENT FOR SAYING, WE'D LIKE
TO HAVE THAT MONEY
>> I THINK THERE'S SOMETHING
MORE IMPORTANT AT STAKE HERE
ARE YOU GOING TO SELL ANYTHING
AND EVERYTHING
I'D LIKE TO SEE US START OFF B
DECIDING THAT THERE'S SOME
PLACES THAT ARE NOT WORTH IT
EVEN IF THEY TOOK SOME OF THAT
MONEY AND BUILT A BOAT DOCK OR
CONCESSION STAND OR SOMETHIN
LIKE THAT.
THIS IS NOT JUST A PLASTIC
ENTERTAINMENT VENUE.
THIS IS A SLICE OF NATURE THAT
WE CAN TREAT AS NATURE
IF WE FRAC UNDERNEATH IT, DEEP
DOWN IT'S JUST ANOTHER FACTORY
EVEN IF IT HAS GRASS ON TOP.
>> Reporter: FRACKING HAS MADE
GAS SO INEXPENSIVE THAT IT'S
DISTRACTING AMERICANS TO INVES
IN RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES AN
THE COALITION WITH OIL AND GAS
COMPANIES IS ONLY GOING TO MAK
THE SITUATION WORSE.
>> DO THEY HAVE A POINT AT ALL
THERE?
>> I UNDERSTAND WHERE TH
PASSION IS COMING FROM
AND I SHARE THAT
BUT TO STAND BY AND DO NOTHING
TO MINIMIZE RISKS TO PUBLI
HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT FRO
FOSSIL FUEL PRODUCTION I
UNACCEPTABLE TO ME
>> Reporter: MARK BROWNSTEIN
SAYS THAT IF THE EVIDENCE SHOW
THAT OIL AND GAS COMPANIES I
THE COALITION ARE NOT SERIOU
ABOUT I AM PROFESSION TH
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS FO
FRACKING, THE EDF WILL WALK AWAY
AND MAKE SURE THAT EVERYON
KNOWS WHY.
FOR NOW USING A PHRASE THA
RONALD REAGAN USED WHEN HE SAT
DOWN WITH THE SOVIETS, TRUST BUT
VERIFY
>> QUESTIONS ABOUT FRACKING?
GO TO NEWSHOUR@PBS.ORG
>>> DAY AFTER DAY, TECH-SAVV
NEW YORKERS WENT ONLINE TO FIN
THE LATEST WORK OF ART KNOWN
ONLY AS BANCI.
HIS WORK IS ADMIRED AND EVEN B
THE POLICE
THAT RAISES THE QUESTION, DOES
THAT UNDERMINE A SUBVERSE SI
FORM OF EXPRESSION
TRACY WOLF REPORTS
>> Reporter: NEW YORK CITY IS
MECCA FOR THE ART.
BUT THIS IS NOT LOCATED IN A
MUSEUM
THIS EXHIBIT IS TAKING PLACE O
IT'S CALLED WAITING TO HANG AN
IT GOENS GOES BY THE NAME OF A
MAN BANKSY
THIS WAS NOT A COMMISSIONE
PIECE BY THE OWNER
IT'S A WORK OF STREET ART, A
ILLEGAL PAINTING OR WHAT SOM
MIGHT CONSIDER VANDALISM
>> THE TWIST IN THE BANKSY STORY
IS THAT WHEN HE VANDALIZES YOU
PROPERTY, ITS VALUE GOES U
INSTEAD OF GOING DOWN.
THAT IS NOT RELATED TO AEROSOL
>> A WEBSITE THAT DOCUMENT
STREET ARTISTS AND MANY OTHERS
ALL OVER THE WORLD
WHAT IS STREET ART
>> STREET ART IS AN OUTGROWTH OF
THE GRAFFITI TRADITION WHICH
BEGAN IN NEW YORK AN
PHILADELPHIA DEPENDING ON WH
YOU SPEAK TO IN THE '60s AND
'70s
BUT IN THE PUBLIC SPACE, USUALLY
ILLEGALLY.
>> Reporter: DURING HI
RESIDENCY IN NEW YORK, BANKS
PRODUCED A PIECE A DAY AND THE
MEDIA TRACKED HIS EVERY MOVE
WHAT SETS HIM APART FROM OTHER
STREET ARTISTS IS THAT BANKS
PIECES ARE HIGHLY SOUGHT AFTER
AND HIGHLY VALUABLE.
LIKE THIS PIECE.
IT SOLD AT AUCTION FOR MORE THAN
$600,000, MONEY THAT WAS DONATED
TO CHARITY
A HANDFUL OF STREET ARTISTS HAVE
GRADUATED FROM THE STREET TO THE
AUCTION HOUSE BUT AS THE
POPULARITY OF THE MOVEMENT
GROWS, SOME WORRY THAT THE
SUBVERSIVE NATURE IS BEING LOST.
>> RIGHT NOW ALL EYES ARE ON
STREET ART AND IT'S BEIN
ADAPTED INTO MANY COMMERCIAL
USES
>> Reporter: SO WHAT SETS STREET
ART APART FROM GRAFFITI?
ALTHOUGH THEY CAN APPEAR
SIMILAR, GRAFFITI ARTIST
PRIMARILY USE AEROSOL PAIN
LETTERING TO WRITE LETTERS AND
TEXTS WHERE IT'S ALL MEDIUMS T
EXPRESS THEMSELVES
>> THIS IS AN INVADER AND TH
FRENCH ARTISTS, THOSE ARE MADE
OF RUBIX CUBES
>> YOU HAVE TO SOLVE THE PUZZL
FIRST.
>> YES
AND HE CAN
>> Reporter: STREET ARTISTS ALSO
USE STICKERS AND STENCILS SUCH
AS THIS BANKSY TRUCK FILLED WITH
SQUEAKY TOYS DRIVING AROUN
MANHATTAN.
PREPARING AND POSTING ART ON
PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY WHILE
TRYING TO AVOID AUTHORITIES.
>> YOU ARE TRESPASSING O
PRIVATE PROPERTY
>> A TICKET.
THE COURT DATE IS JANUARY 2nd.
>> Reporter: BUT BECAUSE O
STREET ART'S GROWING APPEAL,
MANY LANDLORDS ARE NOW INVITIN
ARTISTS TO PAINT THEIR WALLS
LIKE THIS BLOCK IN BROOKLY
FINISHED LAST WEEK
THE LANDLORD PROVIDED THE PAINT.
IS IT STILL STREET ART IF IT'S
LEGAL?
>> PEOPLE WILL VARY ON WHAT TH
DEFINITIONS ARE BUT BECAUSE
ALWAYS SAY THAT IT CAME FROM
GRAFFITI, GRAFFITI IS LARGEL
DONE ILLEGALLY
IT'S BASED ON THIS IDEA OF BEING
TRANSGRESSIVE OR BEING A VANDA
AND TRUE STREET ARTISTS CONSIDER
THAT A VERY IMPORTANT PART O
THEIR PRACTICE
>> AND THE THREAT OF BEING
ARRESTED MAY EXPLAIN WHY KNOWING
EXACTLY WHO BANKSY IS REMAINS
MYSTERY TODAY.
>> A FEW QUICK FOOTNOTES
THREE MEN ARRESTED IN QUEENS
YESTERDAY FOR TRESPASSING.
THEY WERE ACCUSED OF TRYING TO
REMOVE INFLATED LETTERING FROM
BANKSY
YOU CAN FIND AN INTERNATIONA
STREET ART TOUR AT OUR WEBSITE
AS WELL.
♪♪
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>>> JOIN US ON THE NEWSHOU
TOMORROW ON AIR AND ONLINE
THE TRIAL OF EGYPT'S OUCHLTE
PRESIDENT MORSI.
AND SUBMIT STREET ART IN YOU
NEIGHBORHOOD VIA TWITTER AND
FACEBOOK
WE LEAVE YOU NOW WITH SOME O
THOSE IMAGES
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.